CIP-0030 | Deprecate `getCollateral` (#1082)
cardano-foundation/CIPs: CIP-0030/README.md

If `amount` is `undefined`, this shall return a list of all UTXOs (unspent transaction outputs) controlled by the wallet. If `amount` is not `undefined`, this request shall be limited to just the UTXOs that are required to reach the combined ADA/multiasset value target specified in `amount`, and if this cannot be attained, `null` shall be returned. The results can be further paginated by `paginate` if it is not `undefined`.

#### (DEPRECATED) `api.getCollateral(params: { amount: cbor<Coin> }): Promise<TransactionUnspentOutput[] | null>`

Errors: `APIError`

##### DEPRECATION NOTICE

> Since [CIP-40](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/216) and Babbage era "Collateral Return" and "Total Collateral" fields on a transaction body are supported. A transaction can now use up to three **any** collateral inputs and specify the collateral return outputs to receive extra ADA and tokens back as change. Transaction-building SDKs and libraries now all support this functionality as well. This removes the actual **need** for dedicated cumbersome API for providing *special* collateral inputs to exist. DApps should make effort to build transactions using the latest available best methods and practices. In this case it means always utilising collateral return and not risking burning UTxOs with no return. Wallets are free to **not** support this ancient special API function from dark-ages, which does require some extra special management of UTxOs within the wallet, beyong normal logic. And this should generate even more motivation for DApps to make effort when creating transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since [CIP-0040](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/CIP-0040/README.md) and Babbage era "Collateral Return" and "Total Collateral" fields on a transaction body are supported, a transaction can now use up to three **any** collateral inputs and specify the collateral return outputs to receive extra ADA and tokens back as change. Transaction-building SDKs and libraries now all support this functionality as well.  This removes the actual **need** for dedicated cumbersome API for providing *special* collateral inputs to exist.

DApps should make effort to build transactions using the latest available best methods and practices. In this case it means always utilising collateral return and not risking burning UTxOs with no return. Wallets are free to **not** support this ancient special API function, which does require some extra special management of UTxOs within the wallet, beyond normal logic. And this should generate even more motivation for DApps to make effort when creating transactions.
```
Note CIP-0040 has now been merged (it links in turn to this pull request which created it).  Also, this document can be called `CIP-0040` or "CIP 40" but it helps not to mix the two syntaxes.

Personally I like your characterisation of "dark ages" but as editors we are also required to discriminate against emotionally coloured language in CIPs.  The term "ancient" may also be objectionable and perhaps @Ryun1, having been caught in that time loop for a while, could suggest a more objective but clear alternative.

If `amount` is `undefined`, this shall return a list of all UTXOs (unspent transaction outputs) controlled by the wallet. If `amount` is not `undefined`, this request shall be limited to just the UTXOs that are required to reach the combined ADA/multiasset value target specified in `amount`, and if this cannot be attained, `null` shall be returned. The results can be further paginated by `paginate` if it is not `undefined`.

#### (DEPRECATED) `api.getCollateral(params: { amount: cbor<Coin> }): Promise<TransactionUnspentOutput[] | null>`

Errors: `APIError`

##### DEPRECATION NOTICE

> Since [CIP-0040](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/CIP-0040/README.md) and Babbage era "Collateral Return" and "Total Collateral" fields on a transaction body are supported, a transaction can now use up to three **any** collateral inputs and specify the collateral return outputs to receive extra ADA and tokens back as change. Transaction-building SDKs and libraries now all support this functionality as well.  This removes the actual **need** for dedicated cumbersome API for providing *special* collateral inputs to exist.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since [CIP-0040 | Collateral Output](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/CIP-0040/README.md) and Babbage era "Collateral Return" and "Total Collateral" fields on a transaction body are supported, a transaction can now use up to three **any** collateral inputs and specify the collateral return outputs to receive extra ADA and tokens back as change. Transaction-building SDKs and libraries now all support this functionality as well.  This removes the actual **need** for dedicated cumbersome API for providing *special* collateral inputs to exist.
```

> DApps should make effort to build transactions using the latest available best methods and practices. In this case it means always utilising collateral return and not risking burning UTxOs with no return. Wallets are free to **not** support this ancient special API function, which does require some extra special management of UTxOs within the wallet, beyond normal logic. And this should generate even more motivation for DApps to make effort when creating transactions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DApps should make effort to build transactions using the latest available best methods and practices. In this case it means always utilising collateral return and not risking burning UTxOs with no return. Wallets looking to implement this standard are free to **not** support this ancient special API function, which does require some extra special management of UTxOs within the wallet, beyond normal logic.

Deprecating this method aims to motivate DApp implementors not to use this method, but rather to use newer better techniques.
```

If `amount` is `undefined`, this shall return a list of all UTXOs (unspent transaction outputs) controlled by the wallet. If `amount` is not `undefined`, this request shall be limited to just the UTXOs that are required to reach the combined ADA/multiasset value target specified in `amount`, and if this cannot be attained, `null` shall be returned. The results can be further paginated by `paginate` if it is not `undefined`.

#### (DEPRECATED) `api.getCollateral(params: { amount: cbor<Coin> }): Promise<TransactionUnspentOutput[] | null>`

Errors: `APIError`

##### DEPRECATION NOTICE

Since [CIP-0040 | Collateral Output](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/blob/master/CIP-0040/README.md) and Babbage era "Collateral Return" and "Total Collateral" fields on a transaction body are supported, a transaction can now use up to three **any** collateral inputs and specify the collateral return outputs to receive extra ADA and tokens back as change. Transaction-building SDKs and libraries now all support this functionality as well.  This removes the actual **need** for dedicated cumbersome API for providing *special* collateral inputs to exist.

> DApps should make effort to build transactions using the latest available best methods and practices. In this case it means always utilising collateral return and not risking burning UTxOs with no return. Wallets looking to implement this standard are free to **not** support this ancient special API function, which does require some extra special management of UTxOs within the wallet, beyond normal logic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DApps should make effort to build transactions using the latest available best methods and practices. In this case it means always utilising collateral return and not risking burning UTxOs with no return. Wallets looking to implement this standard are free to **not** support this deprecated API function, which does require some extra special management of UTxOs within the wallet, beyond normal logic.
```
